---
author: kylepott
date: 2021-03-18 09:40:00+00:00
draft: false
title: About
type: post
url: /about/
---

### A Little About Me ###
My career journey spans 1.) Software Development 2.) Product Management 3.) Privacy, Security and Audit.

I currently focus on the technical aspects of Internal Audit which span broadly and deep across privacy and security topics.  I develop software in my spare time, primarily using React.js and Python. I enjoy working in AWS.

I'm a husband and father of four located in Illinois, a graduate of the University of Illinois and I die hard with the Fighting Illini.  You can connect with me at [GitHub](https://github.com/kylepott), [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/kylepott), and [GoodReads](https://www.goodreads.com/review/list/3470132-kyle?ref=nav_mybooks).

### On Learning ###
My personal philosophies about continuous learning and self improvement are below.  It’s never been cheaper or more convenient to learn new things.

**Rule 1: Do-it-yourself**
Seek total mastery, and technical ownership by rolling up my sleeves.  Avoid turnkey solutions unless there are no other practical options.

**Rule 2: Eliminate or minimize cost.**
Look to breathe new life into old things.  Make use of the great free and nearly free resources available to us in this time.  Always try to use open source software, learn from it, and contribute back to it either in gratitude or technical contributions.  I am the author of a variety of open source projects.

**Rule 3: Certifications and designations do not necessarily demonstrate mastery.**
Certifications and designations absolutely have their place.  I have earned them in my career. However, I will not seek certification or designation as a way of demonstrating technical ability in this space.  Rather, I leave in my wake completed projects, and the lessons learned in success and overcoming stumbling blocks.

**Rule 4: Be a craftsman.**
Be patient. Take my time and practice true quality.  Resist the urge to rush through my work.  I prefer the classic to the romantic view of craftsmanship which demands comfort with ambiguity and doing it right–even if it takes longer.  Watch out for competency traps.

**Rule 5: Be humble and transparent (HAT)**
Share my learnings and mistakes.  Openly admit when I don’t know.  Don’t try to project competency or experience beyond my level.  Make the effort to understand something I don't know.

**Rule 6: Read from a good book everyday.**
Fiction or non-fiction.  It doesn’t matter.  Never let that reading habit lapse.

**Rule 7: Keep a journal.**
There is no requirement as to how often I write in it, but I a space to record life’s challenges and accomplishments.

**Rule 8: Meditate for a moment each day.**
I’m not a purist in how it gets done.  With or without music.  During exercise.  While driving.  It doesn’t matter.  I try to spend a moment each day self-managing my emotions and outlook – literally or figuratively siting in a chair of thanksgiving each day.